---
title: '3. Analyze data'
layout: default
nav_order: 3
parent: 'Lab 3: Enable monitoring'
---

# Analyze app-specific monitoring data

Now that Application Insights is properly configured, you can use it to monitor your apps. You can use the following guidance to perform this task:

- [Use Application Insights Java In-Process Agent in Azure Spring Apps](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/spring-apps/how-to-application-insights?WT.mc_id=java-13165-sakriema&pivots=sc-enterprise).

Use this guidance to review such Application Insights features as:

- The Application Map
- Performance data
- Failures
- Metrics
- Live Metrics
- Availability
- Logs

## Step by step guidance

1. In your browser, in the Azure Portal, navigate to the page displaying the resource group containing the Spring Apps service resources.

1. Select the Application Insights resource in the resource group. Note that the overview page displays data about Failed requests, Server response time, Server requests and Availability.

1. In the navigation menu, in the **Investigate** section, select **Application map**. This will display information about the apps running in your Spring Apps Service and their dependencies.

1. In the application map, select the circle representing the `api-gateway` service. This will display details about this app, including, for example, the slowest requests and failed dependencies.

1. Select **Investigate performance**. This will automatically open the **Performance** page displaying detailed performance data related to operations, dependencies, and roles.

   {: .note }
   > You can select a specific time period in the graph, which will automatically adjust the view of the performance data.

1. Navigate back to the **Application map** page.

1. In the navigation menu, in the **Investigate** section, select **Live Metrics**, to display live metrics of your app, which includes near real time performance, as well as logs and traces.

1. In the navigation menu, in the **Investigate** section, select **Availability**.

1. In the toolbar of the **Availability** page, select **+ Add Standard test** in order to configure an availability test for your app.

1. Fill out the following details and select **Create**:

   - **Test name**: The api-gateway availability test
   - **URL**: The URL for the assigned endpoint of your `api-gateway`

1. Accept the default values for all other settings. Notice that alerts are automatically enabled.

      {: .note }
   > Once the configuration is completed, the availability of your app will be tested every 5 minutes from 5 different locations.

1. Select the three dots to the right of the newly configured availability test and select **Open Rules (Alerts) page**.

1. Select the alert rule for your availability test. By default there are no action groups associated with this alert rule. We will not configure them in this task, but note that action groups can be used to configure email or SMS notifications targeting designated individuals or groups. For more information, see [Create and manage action groups in the Azure portal](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/action-groups).

1. Navigate back to the page of your Application Insights resource.

1. In the navigation menu, in the **Investigate** section, select **Failures** to review information about failures of your apps. You can click on any of the response codes, exception types, or failed dependencies display additional information about each of these types of failures.

1. In the navigation menu, in the **Investigate** section, select **Performance** to display performance data about your app's operations. This is matching the information you reviewed earlier.

1. In the navigation menu, in the **Monitoring** section, select **Logs** to display log data. You can use Kusto Query Language (KQL) queries to search and analyze the log data. For more information, see [Log queries in Azure Monitor](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/logs/log-query-overview).

1. On the **Queries** pane, select **Performance**.

1. In the list of performance-related queries, in the **Operations performance**, select **Run** to display results of the corresponding query.
