---
title: '2. Consider Azure compute services'
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: 'Lab 1: Plan the Migration'
---

# Consider the Azure services most suitable for hosting your application

Now that you have familiarized yourself with the application you will be migrating to Azure, as the next step, you will need to consider different compute options you have at your disposal for hosting this application.

The four primary options you will take into account are [Azure App Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview), [Azure Kubernetes Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/intro-kubernetes), [Azure Spring Apps](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/spring-apps/) and [Azure Container Apps](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/container-apps/overview). Given that the Spring Petclinic application consists of multiple microservices working together to provide the functionality you reviewed in the previous task, what would you consider to be the most suitable option? Before you answer this question, review the following requirements:

* The Spring Petclinic application should be accessible via a public endpoint to any user (anonymously).
* The new implementation of Spring Petclinic should eliminate the need to manually upgrade and manage the underlying infrastructure. Instead, the application should use the platform-as-a-service (PaaS) model.
* Spring Petclinic implementation needs to adhere to the principles of the microservices architecture, with each component of the application running as a microservice and granular control over cross-component communication. The application will evolve into a solution that will provide automatic and independent scaling of each component and extend to include additional microservices.

Consider any additional steps you may need to perform to migrate the Spring Petclinic application to the target service.

Fill out the following table based on your analysis:

||Azure App Service|Azure Kubernetes Service|Azure Spring Apps|Azure Container Apps|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Public endpoint available|||||
|Auto-upgrade underlying hardware|||||
|Run microservices|||||
|Additional advantages|||||
|Additional disadvantages|||||

## Step by Step Guidance

* Each of the 4 options supports a public endpoint that can be accessed anonymously.
* Each of the 4 options supports automatic upgrades and eliminates the need to manage the underlying infrastructure.
  * With Azure App Service, upgrades are automatic. All underlying infrastructure is managed by the platform.
  * With Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), you can enable automatic upgrades based on the channel of your choice (patch, stable, rapid, node-image). The underlying infrastructure consists of VM's that you provision as part of agent pools, however you don't manage them directly.
  * With Azure Spring Apps, all tasks related to upgrading and managing the underlying infrastructure are taken care of by the platform. While Azure Spring Apps is built on top of an AKS cluster, that cluster is fully managed.
  * With Azure Container Apps, the underlying platform being used is Azure Kubernetes Service, without you needing to manage this cluster. All underlying infrastructure is managed by the platform.
* Both AKS and Azure Spring Apps offer a convenient approach to implementing the microservices architecture. They also provide support for Spring Boot applications. If you decided to choose Azure App Service or Azure Container Apps, you would need to create a new web or container app instance for each microservice, while both AKS and Azure Apps Spring require only a single instance of the service. AKS also facilitates controlling traffic flow between microservices by using network policies.
* Azure Spring Apps offers an easy migration path for existing Spring Boot applications. This would be an advantage for your existing application.
* Azure Spring Apps eliminates any administrative overhead required to run a Kubernetes cluster. This simplifies the operational model.
* AKS and Azure Container Apps would require an extra migration step that involves containerizing all components. You will also need to implement Azure Container Registry to store and deploy your container images from or you could use a publicly available Docker repository.
* Running and operating an AKS cluster introduces an additional effort.
* Azure App Service and Azure Container Apps scalability is more limited than AKS or Azure Spring Apps Service.

Given the above constraints and feature sets, in the case of the Spring Petclinic application, Azure Spring Apps and Azure Kubernetes Service represent the most viable implementation choices.

   {: .note }
   > An additional option would be [Azure Red Hat OpenShift](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/openshift/intro-openshift). This would provide you a similar set of advantages and disadvantages as an Azure Kubernetes Service, but with added functionality provided by Red Hat.

   {: .note }
   > You can find additional guidance on possible Azure services to migrate Java workloads to in the [Compare Java application hosting options on Azure](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/guide/technology-choices/service-for-java-comparison) architecture center article.
