---
title: '4. Inspect data'
layout: default
nav_order: 4
parent: 'Lab 7: Send events between microservices'
---

# Inspect telemetry data being received

To conclude this lab, you will create another owner in the application to send events to your event hub and use output logs of the vets microservice to verify that these messages are being received.

## Step by step guidance

1. In the git bash window, open the log stream of the `vets` microservice.

   ```bash
   az spring app logs --name ${VETS_SERVICE} --follow
   ```

   {: .note }
   > In case you see errors, review the steps you executed and retry. The [LabTips file]({% link LabTips.md %}) also contains steps on how to recover from errors.

1. In your browser window, navigate to the applications' public endpoint and select `Owners - Register`. On the registration page, fill out the details for a new owner and select `Submit`. When you select `Submit` you should see output in the `vets` service logs indicating events were received from the eventhub. 

1. Switch to the web browser displaying the Azure portal, navigate to the page of the resource group containing resources you provisioned in this lab, and select the entry representing your Event Hub namespace.

   {: .note }
   > In case you don't see your Event Hub namespace in the list, select the refresh button.

1. On the Event Hub namespace page, in the navigation menu, in the **Entities** section, select **Event Hubs** and then select the `telemetry` event hub entry.

1. On the **Overview** page, review the **Messages** graph to verify that it includes metrics representing incoming and outgoing messages.