---
title: '3. Service connections'
layout: default
nav_order: 3
parent: 'Lab 5: Delete passwords'
---

# Create service connections from the microservices to the database server

The apps deployed as the Spring Petclinic microservices will now connect using a service connector to the MySQL Flexible server. A service connector will set up the needed environment variables the service needs to make the connection. You can use the following guidance to create a service connector:

- [Connect an Azure Database for MySQL instance to your application in Azure Spring Apps](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/spring-apps/how-to-bind-mysql?tabs=Service-Connector).

The following three apps of your application use the database hosted by the Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server instance, so they will need to be assigned a service connector:

- `customers-service`
- `vets-service`
- `visits-service`

Since each of these apps already has a user assigned managed identity assigned to them, you will make use of this same identity to get access to the database.

## Step by step guidance

1. For creating a service connector you will need to add the `serviceconnector-passwordless` extension:

   ```bash
   az extension add --name serviceconnector-passwordless --upgrade
   ```

1. You will also need the `clientId` of each of the user assigned managed identities of your microservices. Store these clientId's in environment variables, by running the following commands from Git Bash shell:

   ```bash
   CUSTOMERS_SERVICE_CID=$(az identity show -g $RESOURCE_GROUP -n customers-svc-uid --query clientId -o tsv)
   VISITS_SERVICE_CID=$(az identity show -g $RESOURCE_GROUP -n visits-svc-uid --query clientId -o tsv)
   VETS_SERVICE_CID=$(az identity show -g $RESOURCE_GROUP -n vets-svc-uid --query clientId -o tsv)
   ```

1. You will also need your subscription ID for creating the service connections:

   ```bash
   SUBID=$(az account show --query id -o tsv)
   ```

1. Create now the service connections for the `customers-service`.

   ```bash
   az spring connection create mysql-flexible \
       --app $CUSTOMERS_SERVICE \
       --target-resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
       --server $MYSQL_SERVER_NAME \
       --database $DATABASE_NAME \
       --user-identity mysql-identity-id=$ADMIN_IDENTITY_RESOURCE_ID client-id=$CUSTOMERS_SERVICE_CID subs-id=$SUBID
   ```

1. You can test the validity of this new connection with the `validate` command: 

   ```bash
   CONNECTION=$(az spring connection list \
       --app $CUSTOMERS_SERVICE \
       --query [].id -o tsv)
   
   az spring connection validate \
       --app ${CUSTOMERS_SERVICE} \
       --id $CONNECTION
   ```

   The output of this command should show that the connection was made successful.

1. In the same way create the service connections for the `vets-service` and `visits-service`: 

   ```bash
   az spring connection create mysql-flexible \
       --app $VISITS_SERVICE \
       --target-resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
       --server $MYSQL_SERVER_NAME \
       --database $DATABASE_NAME \
       --user-identity mysql-identity-id=$ADMIN_IDENTITY_RESOURCE_ID client-id=$VISITS_SERVICE_CID subs-id=$SUBID
   
   az spring connection create mysql-flexible \
       --app $VETS_SERVICE \
       --target-resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
       --server $MYSQL_SERVER_NAME \
       --database $DATABASE_NAME \
       --user-identity mysql-identity-id=$ADMIN_IDENTITY_RESOURCE_ID client-id=$VETS_SERVICE_CID subs-id=$SUBID
   ```

1. In the Azure Portal, navigate to your Spring Apps Service instance. Navigate to `Apps` and open your `customers-service` app. In the `customers-service` app, select the `Service Connector` menu item. Notice in this screen you can see the details of your service connector. Notice that the service connector has all the config values set like `spring.datasource.url`, `spring.datasource.username`, but for instance no `spring.datasource.password`. These values get turned into environment variables at runtime for your app. This is also why you could remove them from the Key Vault. Instead of `spring.datasource.password` it has a `spring.cloud.azure.credential.client-id`, which is the client ID of your managed identity. It also defines 2 additional variables `spring.datasource.azure.passwordless-enabled` and `spring.cloud.azure.credential.managed-identity-enabled` for enabling the passwordless connectivity.

