---
title: '2. Send messages'
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: 'Lab 6: Send messages between microservices'
---

# Test the messaging functionality

In the spring-petclinic-microservices repository, the `spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator` microservice is already prepared to send messages to an Azure Service Bus namespace. You can add this microservice to your current Spring Petclinic project in the parent `pom.xml` file, deploy it as an extra microservice in your Azure Spring Apps service and use this microservice's public endpoint to send messages to your Service Bus namespace. Test this functionality and inspect whether messages end up in the Service Bus namespace you just created by using the Service Bus Explorer for the `visits-requests` queue. You can use the following guidance to implement these changes:

- [Use Service Bus Explorer to run data operations on Service Bus (Preview)](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-bus-messaging/explorer).

## Step by step guidance

1. As a first step in the parent `pom.xml` file, you'll have to uncomment the module for the `spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator` in the `<modules>` element at line 26.

    ```xml
    <module>spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator</module>
    ```

1. Update the compiled version of the microservices available by running an additional build.

   ```bash
   cd ~/workspaces/java-microservices-asa-standard-lab/src
   mvn clean package -DskipTests -rf :spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator
   ```

1. Create a new application in your Spring Apps service for the `messaging-emulator` and assign a public endpoint to it.

   ```bash
   MESSAGING_EMULATOR=messaging-emulator
   az spring app create \
       --name $MESSAGING_EMULATOR \
       --assign-endpoint true
   ```

   {: .note }
   > Wait for the provisioning to complete. This might take about 3 minutes.

1. Create a new user assigned managed identity for this new application and assign it to the `messaging-emulator` app:

   ```bash
   MESSAGING_EMULATOR_ID=$(az identity create -g $RESOURCE_GROUP -n messaging-svc-uid --query id -o tsv)
   
   az spring app identity assign \
       --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
       --name $MESSAGING_EMULATOR \
       --user-assigned $MESSAGING_EMULATOR_ID   
   ```

1. Grant to the newly assigned identity the get and list permissions on your Key Vault secrets.

   ```bash
   MESSAGING_EMULATOR_UID=$(az identity show -g $RESOURCE_GROUP -n messaging-svc-uid --query principalId -o tsv)
   
   az keyvault set-policy \
       --name $KEYVAULT_NAME \
       --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
       --secret-permissions get list  \
       --object-id $MESSAGING_EMULATOR_UID
   ```

1. Since the messaging-emulator will also save data in the database, you will also need to create a service connection for it: 

   ```bash
   MESSAGING_EMULATOR_CID=$(az identity show -g $RESOURCE_GROUP -n messaging-svc-uid --query clientId -o tsv)
    
   az spring connection create mysql-flexible \
       --app $MESSAGING_EMULATOR \
       --target-resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
       --server $MYSQL_SERVER_NAME \
       --database $DATABASE_NAME \
       --user-identity mysql-identity-id=$ADMIN_IDENTITY_RESOURCE_ID client-id=$MESSAGING_EMULATOR_CID subs-id=$SUBID
   ```

1. You can now deploy the messaging-emulator application.

   ```bash
   MESSAGING_EMULATOR_JAR=spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator/target/spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator-$VERSION.jar
   
   az spring app deploy --name ${MESSAGING_EMULATOR} \
       --no-wait \
       --artifact-path ${MESSAGING_EMULATOR_JAR}
   ```

1. Switch to the web browser window displaying the Azure Portal, navigate to the resource group containing the resources you deployed in this lab, and, from there, navigate to the Azure Spring Apps Service.

1.  In the navigation menu, in the **Settings** section, select **Apps**, wait until the **Provisioning state** of the `messaging-emulator` app changes to **Succeeded**, and then select the `messaging-emulator` app entry.

    {: .note }
   > The provisioning might take about 3 minutes. Select **Refresh** in order to update the provisioning status.

1. Once provisioning is complete. Select the apps URL and open this in a new browser window.

1.  On the newly opened browser page titled **Message**, enter **1** in the **Pet** text box and a random text in the **Message** text box, and then select **Submit**.

1. In the Azure Portal, navigate to your resource group and select the Service Bus namespace you deployed in the previous task.

1. In the navigation menu, in the **Entities** section, select **Queues** and then select the `visits-requests` queue entry.

1. On the **Overview** page of the `visits-requests` queue, verify that the active message count is set to 1.

1. Select **Service Bus Explorer (Preview)** and select **Peek from start**. This operation allows you to peek at the top messages on the queue, without dequeuing them.

1. Select the message entry in the queue and review the **Message Body** section to confirm that its content matches the message you submitted.

You might want to inspect the code of the `messaging-emulator` microservice. Take a look at:

- The dependencies for the Service Bus in the `pom.xml` file.
- The `PetClinicVisitRequestSender` and `PetClinicMessageResponsesReceiver` classes in the `service` folder. These are the classes that enable sending and receiving of messages to and from a queue using JMS.
- The `PetClinicMessageRequest` and `PetClinicMessageResponse` classes in the `entity` folder. These are the messages being sent back and forth.
- The `MessagingConfig` class in the `config` folder. This class provides conversion to and from JSON.
- The `AzureServiceBusResource` class in the `web` folder. This class makes use of the above classed to send a message to the Service Bus.

In the next steps you will add similar functionality to the `visits` service.
